Ai restructure (#1310)
redis/docs: content/develop/ai/rag.md

---
categories:
- docs
- develop
- stack
- oss
- rs
- rc
- oss
- kubernetes
- clients

> description: Understand how to use Redis for RAG use cases

Reviewer: "Use for use cases" reads a bit strangely.
```suggestion
description: Understand how to use Redis for Retrieval Augmented Generation.
```

Author: fixed in separate commit

### The role of Redis in RAG

Redis provides a robust platform for managing real-time data. It supports the storage and retrieval of vectors, essential for handling large-scale, unstructured data and performing similarity searches. Key features and components of Redis that make it suitable for RAG include:

1. **Vector database**: Stores and indexes vector embeddings that semantically represent unstructured data.
1. **Semantic cache**: Caches frequently asked questions (FAQs) in a RAG pipeline. Using vector search, Redis retrieves similar previously answered questions, reducing LLM inference costs and latency.
1. **LLM session manager**: Stores conversation history between an LLM and a user. Redis fetches recent and relevant portions of the chat history to provide context, improving the quality and accuracy of responses.
1. **High performance and scalability**: Known for its [low latency and high throughput](https://redis.io/blog/benchmarking-results-for-vector-databases/), Redis is ideal for RAG systems and AI agents requiring rapid data retrieval and generation.

### Build a RAG Application with Redis

To build a RAG application with Redis, follow these general steps:

> 1. **Set up Redis**: Start by setting up a Redis instance and configuring it to handle vector data.

Reviewer: Needs one or more links here? I don't know if we prefer to direct them to Cloud or point to the local server installation (or just say that you can do both).

Author: I will leave this as-is for now

    1. **Redis Vector Library (RedisVL)**: [RedisVL](https://redis.io/docs/latest/integrate/redisvl/) enhances the development of generative AI applications by efficiently managing vectors and metadata. It allows for storage of vector embeddings and facilitates fast similarity searches, crucial for retrieving relevant information in RAG.
    1. **Popular AI frameworks**: Redis integrates seamlessly with various AI frameworks and tools. For instance, combining Redis with [LangChain](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/integrations/vectorstores/redis/) or [LlamaIndex](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/latest/examples/vector_stores/RedisIndexDemo/), libraries for building language models, enables developers to create sophisticated RAG pipelines. These integrations support efficient data management and building real-time LLM chains.
    1. **Spring AI and Redis**: Using [Spring AI with Redis](https://redis.io/blog/building-a-rag-application-with-redis-and-spring-ai/) simplifies building RAG applications. Spring AI provides a structured approach to integrating AI capabilities into applications, while Redis handles data management, ensuring the RAG pipeline is efficient and scalable.

> 1. **Embed and store data**: Convert your data into vector embeddings using a suitable model (e.g., BERT, GPT). Store these embeddings in Redis, where they can be quickly retrieved based on vector searches.

Reviewer: Shameless plug for my stuff :-) 
```suggestion
1. **Embed and store data**: Convert your data into vector embeddings using a suitable model (e.g., BERT, GPT). Store these embeddings in Redis, where they can be quickly retrieved based on vector searches. The [client library guides]({{< relref "/develop/clients" >}}) have code examples showing how to do this.
```
